The killer lives among us.
He's targeting men
between the ages of 16 and 30.
and he's doing so
with the use of this.
Philly. Monica?
You didn't leave the Burning Light.
did you? They left you.
Another?
This kid managed to escape.
Tammy. you have got to stop
your obsession with this.
So. Jason was taken from in here.
And a few years ago now.
I found him down by the loch with...
hosepipe looped through the window.
engine still running.
'The victims were forced
to ingest these stones.'
Should've left you years ago.
Stop it! Stop it! The pair of you.
You see this? It's a warning.
Whoever did this to Jason.
he's coming back.
'Please do not let him find us.'
This man is weak.
He lures his victims into traps.
and then he incapacitates them.
Above all else.
he is. at his core. a coward.
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
CRAWFORD: Get on to that now.
Here. Female victim.
Wild. wild deviation of his MO.
Monica. you know her. Who is she?
Philly Murray.
Does Philly have any next of kin?
Family?
She has a daughter. No-one else.
We'll get the family liaison
onto it.
It's not that simple.
Is that because she's got
the same mark on her arm as you?
Her daughter's with
the Burning Light. then.
So you went
beyond investigating them.
You were one of them too.
I was worse. I recruited Philly.
That mark on her arm. that was me.
I branded her.
Father of Philly's child -
he's Lucy's. too.
If it wasn't for you saying so.
I'd say this is not his work.
The gender. clothed...
Staging. yes. dramatic.
but the kill. it was efficient.
He said. "This one's for you."
What do you mean?
He's taunting me.
Wait. you... you spoke to him?
This was a gesture.
He thinks I'm like him
but could never be him.
Whatever sick connection he feels
towards you. it's not on you.
He's a psychopath.
Who I provoked and is now killing
people in my orbit.
So you think this one's
about you. right?
This is personal.
I need to get my family safe.
I mean. will it be for long?
I mean. I need my tablets.
I need my own clothes.
Mum... Is it because
of what you said on television?
Have you made him angry?
Maybe. Yes.
Maybe I've set him on a path
to killing everyone I know.
And... I do love you.
and I want to make sure you're safe.
ANGELA TUTS Monica.
You know that...
Oh. it's... OK.
We'll finish this later.
I'll just get on
with Lucy's packing. Thanks.
You wanted to show me something?
Highly likely I'll be stood down.
When did you gather all this?
Oh. can I...? Yeah.
What's a "baytle"?
Er. baetyl.
From classical mythology.
Stones of divine power.
I think he's creating his own myth.
Well. this is from Plotinus.
Same fella as this rabbit quote?
Yeah.
"He who is awake
in the intelligible world"
"sleeps in the sensible one."
Think of it as...
there are two kinds of selves
within us.
Our killer has two sides.
Yes. and his true self
emerges at night.
And that's how he wants
to be recognised -
the myth. not the man.
He's piecing together other
people's stories to tell his own.
He lacks the imagination
to do it all himself.
He's clever. yes.
but he's frustrated.
He thinks he should be bigger.
better...
living a less mediocre existence.
So your average civil servant. then.
You might not be far wrong.
Point being. he's someone
we'd walk past in the street
and not look twice at.
Might already have. Oh.
PHONE BUZZES
All right. Dunc?
MOUTHS Yes.
Yes. Erm. right. I'll see you soon.
We just got a hit on CCTV.
GREGG: 'Burner phone untraceable.'
But... we got this.
Car reg not clear.
but got him in all his glory.
Bet it won't be
the last image either.
Joys of modern community -
forever snooping on each other.
Removing. his time in. time out.
direction of travel.
DOOR CLOSES
Lucy. hop into your seat for me.
Clip her in. will you?
ANGELA: Of course.
LUCY: Seatbelts keep us safe.
Grandma.
We've got you secure accommodation.
hundred miles out west.
We've got him on CCTV.
We'll have his vehicle tracked.
This is a major lead.
I've emailed you the address.
Need to make a stop first.
Mum needs her prescription
and clothes.
It's the opposite direction.
Gregg can take her
and then drop her off. No.
Trust me.
Yeah. all right. Dunc?
Lovely Angela needs to collect
a few things. right?
Can you take her
and then head to the safe house?
GREGG: Yeah. I can do that.
I'll run you home.
We'll catch them up.
Let me take your bag.
I'll let you ride shotgun.
Thank you.
Starsky and Hutch.
GREGG CHUCKLES.
CAT PURRS
PHONE RINGS
Yes?
Hi. Is that Michael Bach?
Yes. 'Hi. this is Kyle Ward.'
I'm headmaster at...
'I know.
I'm due to see you on Monday.'
Yeah. about that.
Erm. I am getting flooded with calls
from concerned parents
and the school board
about your colleague James.
And his paperwork is a disgrace.
'I can't make head nor tail of it.'
Hm.
Well. that's no surprise.
'Were you aware of James...?'
That's not what I said.
Look. why are you calling?
Oh. I was hoping that you would want
to rip the plaster off
as soon as possible.
'You mean discuss this now?'
The sooner we're on top of it...
No. it's really...
not the best time.
Erm...
Er... look. Michael. Bluntly...
My daughter is distressed.
'She was close
with one of the victims.
'and I suspect she's not the only
pupil having sleepless nights.'
If you and I
can decipher this chaos.
we might even be able
to help the police.
'Put everyone's minds at ease.'
MICHAEL SIGHS
Where are you?
'About 20 minutes away.
'I was about to take Tammy out
for the day.
'try to distract her a bit.
'We could stop by.' Fine.
Just be a minute. Lucy.
We're doing our best
to have a media blackout.
I've got to protect
the investigation. Monica.
I'm off the case.
You're replacing me as SIO.
You not fighting me?
Well. my career can wait.
And...
the only reason
he knew about Philly
was because I lured him
to the Burning Light.
Did you know she was there?
That's not the point.
It is the point.
Less than 24 hours ago.
you saved her life.
I didn't catch him.
And I won't now. will I?
CAR PULLING UP
There you go. CAT MEOWS.
How long is this gonna take?
Pieces of string. darling.
That could mean hours. knowing you.
Fine. Come inside too.
No greater ticking clock
than an impatient daughter.
Kyle.
You must be Tammy.
You got any cat allergies?
No. Is there anywhere
we could do this privately?
I've got my headphones.
I know you're not a snooper.
Regardless. your peers' privacy.
This way.
CAT MEOWS Have a seat.
It's a really nice place
you have here.
Quiet. out of the way.
Yeah. Yeah. it's all right.
So. er... James.
Sorry. could I trouble you
for a glass of water. please?
I'm just a little dry.
So much for a quick chat. eh?
Yeah. Yeah. fine.
CAT MEOWS Here.
Ch. ch. ch. ch. ch. ch!
Fair enough.
SHE GASPS
You must travel far and wide
in your role.
Yeah. Planet doesn't love
my mileage.
James was a firm believer
in the office.
And it shows. Chaos.
In all my years
spent in education and outreach.
I've learnt the only way
we truly help
is by building
a personal connection.
Hold that thought.
This room is private. Sorry.
There's a cat.
Aye. but it's long gone. Tammy?
Here.
FOOTSTEPS APPROACH
These are the dead boys.
aren't they?
That's right.
What about him?
What's all this?
CAT MEOWS. GRUNTING
SCREAMS: Dad! THUD.
TAMMY SCREAMS. THUD
Bethany! Nichol!
PHONE RINGS
Michael? Who's this?
He's taken Tammy. Monica!
Kyle? 'He had a mask!'
A mask?
Oh. God. I'm dizzy.
Kyle. did you say a mask?
Can you hear me?
It's Michael Bach. It's him.
He attacked me.
Kyle. I need to call my colleagues.
PHONE CALL BREAKS UP
Kyle. did you say you called...?
They're 20 minutes away.
SIGNAL DISTORTS Kyle?
You're breaking up.
DISCONNECT TONE
RINGING TONE
Oh. shit.
1.200 cash.
But... it's worth double.
If times were different. maybe.
Where we even going?
"We"?
HE EXHALES
Look. Mum... wherever you want.
It's time for you to choose.
RINGING TONE
Kennedy.
DISTORTED: 'Michael Bach.'
What? The reception's shite.
'Michael...'
CALL BREAKING UP
You're at Michael's? Why...?
DISCONNECT TONE
Send me a copy of that.
Aye. Sir.
KYLE: Tammy!
Tammy! Kyle?
Monica! He's taken Tammy.
She's not here. My girl. she's gone.
I tried calling her.
but no reception.
Kyle. slow down.
And then the line went dead.
He's cut the phone line.
Where are your colleagues?
They said he'd be 20 minutes.
Then they'll be here soon.
Wait. so it's just you?
OK. look at me.
You've lost a lot of blood.
No. we need to find Tammy.
The more information I can obtain.
the quicker we can act. OK?
We need to stop that bleeding.
Press this against it for now.
Kyle. I need you to talk me through
what happened.
The last thing...
We were in the room with the photos.
What photos?
You need to see it.
Tammy started to ask
all these questions about the boys.
what this meant.
And then Michael just went for me.
and everything went blurry.
Have you touched anything?
That's my blood.
Aside from the struggle.
The photos. drawers. files?
You said he had a mask?
I was on the floor.
and he took it from...
What did it look like?
Er. terrifying.
White.
I don't know. I think I passed out.
Why were you here? Here?
At Michael's house.
Oh. God.
This is my fault.
He was my new
school liaison officer.
And after James. I wanted to get
a grip on all the paperwork.
so I imposed ourselves upon him.
I forced Tammy to come.
Was his car here when you arrived?
Green Land Rover?
I think so.
My head is spinning.
I need to sit down.
RINGING TONE Come on. Kennedy.
DISCONNECT TONE
Who did you talk to at the station?
Did you get their name?
No. just... 20 minutes. they said.
I made tea for some reason.
I thought it might calm...
I'll check the rest of the property
and see if I can get a signal.
Let me help. No. no. Sit down.
You're likely concussed.
Tammy.
Will she be OK?
ENGINE RUNNING
'It's safer to stay put for now.
wait for back-up.'
Michael's someone you trusted.
My daughter's life is in peril
because you provoked him.
mocked him.
claimed he was unintelligent.
uneducated.
Yes. that's true.
Well. you made him adapt. Change.
That's intelligence.
Change? Yes.
No longer just young men. Women too.
Women?
The woman this morning.
So tragic.
'A young woman like that.
Why did she deserve to die?'
SHE SPLUTTERS
SHE SOBS
SHE SCREAMS
That mask you saw.
that was his true self.
Every day. he... hid behind
a veneer of normality.
Monica?
He who sleeps in the intelligible
world is awake in the sensible one.
Sleeps in the sensible one.
Pardon?
That was a quote. I believe.
A word or two out.
CAT MEWLS. MEOWS
Cats are misunderstood.
There we are.
Oh!
Apparently. they calm people.
CAT PURRS
Shit!
You OK. Monica?
Peppermint tea?
With a little twist.
How long have I got?
Three sips.
Two minutes. maybe less.
Oh.
Let's find you somewhere to sit.
It's not long
till my favourite part begins.
CRAWFORD COUGHS. WHEEZES
What the fuck? HE COUGHS.
BANGING
HE GRUNTS
HE PANTS
Shit.
Tammy! Tammy!
There we go.
All comfy?
Why?
Why? Why? Your own daughter?
I didn't want this. Monica.
This is not the way
today was supposed to go. No.
Today was about framing Michael.
planting little evidential seeds.
He's the perfect scapegoat.
with his access to young men.
But then Tammy blew
the whole thing apart. Clever girl.
She figured me out.
This is the kindest thing for her.
ENGINE THRUMS
CRAWFORD COUGHS. WHEEZES
GLASS SMASHES
I used to fear the split
within myself.
But after my wife died. I looked.
truly looked within myself.
Her death liberated me.
Doting father.
Tammy provided the perfect cover
for me to indulge my true self.
DROWSILY: How would...?
Oh. don't worry. Much less dramatic.
More in keeping with Michael.
his family history.
You three. in his car. by the loch.
Just like his dad.
Come on. Come on.
Tammy. Tammy. come on.
Come on. come on.
There you are. Come on.
SHE COUGHS VIOLENTLY
There's a good girl. that's it.
Good girl. take a breath.
There you are. Get it out of you.
SHE COUGHS. SPLUTTERS
That's it. That's it. that's it.
it's all right.
It's all right. it's all right.
SHE CRIES OUT.
It's all right.
Not long now. Monica.
And then I'll carry you down
to join the others.
and it'll all be over.
This is my favourite part.
Watching.
As the life
and all its dreams. hopes...
potential fades away.
One of the tragedies of my job
is seeing potential squandered.
Young men
with everything ahead of them.
yet such a tragic lack of vision.
I give them a chance
to do better in the next life.
I send them off with wishing stones.
Maybe that's why Philly
was so unsatisfying.
She had so little left.
All quashed by you. Monica.
I did what you couldn't.
I ended her life.
COUGHING. WHEEZING
Michael? Michael!
You're gonna rot inside
for what you did.
Get fucking off me!
You're going nowhere.
Where's Kennedy?
Let go! Let him go! What?
It's not him!
It's my dad. He attacked us.
SHE COUGHS.
They'll write you off as a failure.
How could she have been so troubled
that she couldn't see there was
a killer before her all along?
How many lives she could have s...
have saved.
Clever. You swapped the mugs.
By my count. that's three sips
compared to my one.
All units. officer in distress!
LABOURED BREATHING
You mistook my guilt for weakness.
Lucy!
There are lots of cats over here.
Yes. I think there's lots more
outside. Just hold me tight.
LABOURED BREATHING
Lucy. I love you.
Mummy needs a minute.
Thank God!
Tammy and Michael are alive.
Is Ward?
OK.
Are you all right. Monica?
I think she might have seen me.
What if she did? What if...?
Hey. Hey.
Hey.
Go to Lucy.
I'll deal with them.
Sorry.
It's a crime scene now.
CRAWFORD CLEARS THROAT
Control. we have one deceased...
Hey.
SHE SOBS You're OK. you're OK.
It's OK.
♪ Whoa. oh
How could you stoop so low?
♪ Oh. oh... ♪
BELL CHIMES
♪ I'm left in only doubt with love
♪ Wearing all the same clothes
Oh. oh
♪ Surrounded by
♪ Surrounded by these walls. ♪
STEPHEN: That song...
I'll be honest.
it used to drive me mad.
"Rob. that's not real music!
This is real music."
And I'd bung on some Paul Weller
as a counter.
I know. typical dad behaviour.
I'm sorry.
But now? That song now?
It does nothing but make me smile.
We have to cherish the time we had
with the young people
that were taken from us.
Because it's too easy
to let grief win...
to think about what we've lost
and not gained.
Because my son Rob Wright was
the kindest. most beautiful soul.
And we're so lucky
to have known him.
And that's what must win - the joy.
The smiles that he put
on his friends' faces.
TAMMY HYPERVENTILATES
Tammy? Hey.
Hey. You're having a panic attack.
You're having a panic attack.
You're OK. You're OK.
Breathe. breathe.
Look at me. This will pass.
He was at our house.
It was a few months ago.
Tammy. who?
I thought I was dreaming.
I thought it was just part
of the nightmares.
I wasn't supposed to know.
I was supposed to be in bed. but...
They argued.
Dad sent him away. told me
it was part of his outreach work.
Who was it?
Tammy. who was in your house?
I saw his photo on Michael's wall.
Jason's brother.
Dad knew him. Something was wrong.
it just felt wrong.
Nichol?
It's just you?
It is.
We were easy to find?
You didn't change your name. Nichol.
I think you wanted to be found.
Is Ward really dead?
EXHALES HEAVILY
Was he kind to begin?
It wasn't kindness
I was looking for.
Did he give you
what you didn't have at home?
I had so much hate in me.
Barclay... pushed me out
of my own family. and...
Jason was everything to him.
Ward...
he told me stories of revenge...
of stones that granted wishes.
Black stones?
I heard that.
and I made that my dream.
And all I ever wanted
was my mum to love me.
Then Ward...
got darker. dripping darker ideas.
The only way to hurt Barclay
is to hurt Jason. and...
You were hurt. angry.
He groomed you. Nichol.
What did he ask you to do?
I left phones for them.
I watched them.
and I reported on them.
He killed them with my help.
That is not being groomed!
Like. what the fuck am I?
But you stopped.
Was it after Owen? Before Scott?
You're not a killer. No.
No. no. you don't understand.
Nichol. I do.
No... Loneliness. anger.
they are gateways for the malicious
to twist and exploit.
No. don't excuse my actions!
Your mother chose you.
If only she knew. Hm?
He was my brother. Yes.
My brother. and... Nichol.
You've got handcuffs. right?
Yes.
Then cuff me. Put them on me.
I can't whilst you're holding that.
No. p-please. Monica. please.
I can't do this any more.
I can't run.
Please. just make it stop.
HE SOBS SOFTLY
Thanks.
Hi.
There was a memorial
for Jason and Rob. Mm-hm.
Barclay was there.
We do shut soon.
Stephen organised it.
Please don't say his name.
Nichol's in my car. Your car?
Why? I came to find him.
We... We just want a fresh start.
He asked me to put him in handcuffs.
Handcuffs?
Did you?
We've kept investigating Kyle Ward's
history. how he operated.
He manipulated and groomed
a lot of people.
Not only those whose lives he took.
those he needed in other ways.
We suspected he hadn't worked alone.
We were right.
I really do need to lock up.
Nichol told me
he can't live with the guilt.
BETHANY SIGHS
He's not carrying it alone.
I chose a man who hated my son.
If I'd been...
stronger and a better mother...
Do you really believe that?
I just...
TEARFULLY: I just want to give
Nichol the love he deserves.
That's what we mothers try to do.
Justice can set people free.
It's just a... a little something.
Is it a puppy?
Silly Granny. Puppies bark.
Oh! ANGELA CHUCKLES.
Thank you. Crawford. Aw. pal.
Put it under the tree. darling.
Here. I... I didn't know
you had any plans. I'll get going.
Oh. Connor. don't you fancy
Winter Wonderland with us?
I can just see you on the dodgems.
Aye. he's more
of a teacups kind of man.
I do love the teacups.
to be fair. so...
THEY LAUGH
Oh! HE LAUGHS.
Piggyback. Crawford?
Well. if you're offering.
Would be rude to refuse.
OK. you ready? No!
What? Oh. I'm sorry?
You want ME to do
all the hard work. do you? Oh!
Right. OK. He's silly. Mummy.
That's one word for him.
CRAWFORD LAUGHS. GIBBERS
LUCY LAUGHS 'Ey. another jump.
Whoo-hoo-hoo! LUCY SHRIEKS.
LUCY AND CRAWFORD LAUGH
Are you all right?
You watch your back.
Horsey ready. Granny ready.
Are you ready. Mummy?
Subtitles by accessibility@itv.com
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org